Software Engineering Fundamentals ESPE class
TEAM 02 MATRIX

Integrants:
Victor Espejo
Carlos Granda 
Jose Imbaquinga
Mateo Llumigusin
Jeffrey Manobanda (Leader)

Project
Transport Public in Quito

Name aplication: Transladate
TOPIC: PUBLIC TRANSPORT IN QUITO

PROBLEM
We need an app, which helps us determine what is the best route to reach a specific
destination through public transport, depending on the user's location. Since for
the user's destination there are many routes that can be reached, in the same way
the traffic of each route is not known, which makes it difficult for people to arrive
at their destination and what is the bus schedule with which one works. In Quito
there are different types of public transport and it is difficult to know which
ones go through the specific place that the user is looking for since each public
transport has different routes and what is very confusing for the user.
When using the app we will not take into account the ticket value of each public
transport, nor stops that are not registered in the app. Cooperatives that are not
working at that time will also not be taken into account.

OVERVIEW
1-WHAT WILL THE APPLICATION BE USED FOR AND WHAT TYPE OF APPLICATION WILL IT BE? 
This project or work has the purpose of describing the stages that will be carried
out in the elaboration of the application for some devices that the population uses,
taking into account the number of buses that stop in that place or in a nearby place,
which is the best route taking into account the distance of each route and the traffic
of the sector of that route, as well as the arrival time of each bus to the user's
location, in the same way the app will give an alert (notification) at the time of
arrival of public transport and before the user's arrival at their destination.with this
application we can locate the transport units in real time and it will allow us to make
the best decision As for the route that we must take, the current location and the final
destination of the user are taken into reference for the development of this application,
which the application will recommend the best route and what measures we must take into
account to arrive on time to our destination, with this we will save time and we will have
in itself a better route.
Since there is currently no effective control in the field of transport, we could not put
more measures such as safety and comfort, among other things that happen in everyday life,
on the other hand this application will help us avoid clutter in the routes, traffic or
loss of time during mobilization.
An example to carry out would be that in the south of Quito we have approximately 900,000
people and of these, 75  use public or private transport.

The applications that we must link for our project is google maps because this function has
extensive options which will be useful when viewing the route, price of the route of public transport. 
For its correct operation we must first ask the user the starting point of the route, once
chosen from where you want to start the route must choose which stop you want to end.
Once the beginning and the end of the stops are chosen, the application will analyze the most
optimal route and will compare with the routes of the 47 cooperatives to determine which is
the most efficient route; once the cooperative is selected, the total price of the route will
be analyzed and a message will appear to the user in the application which must accept that
the route, price and cooperative are to the user's liking. When the user accepts this condition,
he/she will have to choose if the transport is needed for that moment or if he/she wants it for a
specific time. If he wants to instantly the application will analyze the gps of all the buses of the
selected cooperative and the bus that is closer to the point of origin will make a comparison of how
long it takes to get to the initial stop, sending the time to the user to be ready at the time of
passing the bus. If the selected bus is not in its working hours, a notification will be sent to 
the user showing the working hours and thanking him for using the application. If the user wishes
to use the application for a specific time, the gps of the buses will be analyzed about 5 minutes
before the selected time and when the selected time arrives, an alert message will be sent notifying
where the bus is located. Once the bus arrives, the user will be able to see the name and license plate
of the bus and the driver of the bus for the user's safety. The user will be able to see the complete
route of the bus at all times and about two stops before the bus arrives, the user will be notified so
that he/she will be aware that he/she has arrived at the desired stop. When the user arrives at his
destination the application will thank him for using our services.

BACKGROUND
Stops
In the metropolitan district of Quito, there are 32 parishes which are covered by several public
transport stops which connect all of Quito. Currently there are more than 3,624 conventional public 
transport stops, they connect with the main terminals that are the Quitumbe terminal in the south
of Quito and the Ofelia terminal in the north of Quito and all buses that cover all depart from
these main stations the parishes of Quito. These stops are located throughout the Metropolitan
District of Quito and anyone can access this service since it is close to anyone.

Road Traffic
One of the aspects that directly influence the travel time of citizens is the traffic on the roads;
these conditions are linked to aspects related to the road system: road capacity, traffic control 
devices, signaling and control; aspects related to the characteristics of the vehicles, both technical
and the function they perform: private vehicles, goods distributors, public transport, cabs, etc.; and,
the conditions of the users of the road system: drivers, pedestrians.
The aforementioned circumstances are reflected as a result of the high levels of congestion, caused in turn
by the excessive number of vehicles on the road system, which is why such congestion occurs mainly during
peak hours of the day, generating a decrease in traffic speed and consequent increases in travel times.
One of the key points of affluence and distribution of traffic in Quito is El Trébol, a site through which
one enters or leaves to the Valle de Los Chillos and passes the eastern connection that links the north,
center and south of the city, where the vehicle load has exceeded the capacity of the available road supply,
one of the main causes of this problem has to do with the intense growth of the vehicle fleet.

Main transportation terminals

Ofelia Terminal
It is a bus station in the city of Quito. It is located on Diego Vázques de Cepeda Avenue and between the
streets De los Ciruelos and Los Tulipanes, towards the northern sector of the district. This station
allows the connection with the north of the country and the west of the province of Pichincha.
It is a station with a connection to the North Central Corridor, currently this station is concessioned
to the transport cooperatives Tesur, Pichincha, Globatrans, Qatar, also with articulated buses and
feeder routes such as: La Planada, Colinas del Norte, Pisulí, Roldós, Carcelén Bajo, La Pampa, Middle
of the World, Calacalí, Carapungo, Zabala, Calderón, Carcelén Alto and Atucucho, El Edén, el Inca,
San Pablo and la Vicentina.
The following inter-parish operators arrive at the station: Flota Pichincha, San Juan de Calderón, Llano
Grande and Santa Clara de Pomasqui and inter-cantonal cooperatives: Flor del Valle, Otavalo, Malchinguí,
Cangahua and San José de Minas.
The terminal operates from Monday to Friday from 5:00 am to 10:30 pm and on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
from 6:00 am to 9:30 pm.

Marín El Playón Station 
It is the main station of 2 main corridors in Quito, located on Pichincha Avenue intersection with Rocafuerte
Street as it is an integrating station, the station is a connection point for several transportation systems
such as the Ecovía and the central extension of the North Central Corridor, it also has the Marín-Valle de los
Chillos Station which makes this station a connection point with the Valle de los Chillos sector such as
Sangolquí, Amaguaña among others.

Quitumbe Land Terminal 
It is the main bus station for interprovincial transportation in Quito and is also a station with connections
to the Metro and the Trolleybus, South East and South West corridors, Ecovia, through which you can access almost
anywhere in the city.
It connects the entire south side of the country and the entire city with the Metrobus transportation system
with brief connections to the Ecovía. The Quitumbe interprovincial terminal is located between Mariscal Sucre
and Condor Ñan avenues and is bordered by the Ortega and El Carmen streams.
